README.md, before:

# AI-Backed Recipe Maker

An AI-powered web application that generates recipes based on ingredients provided by companies. This project leverages Flask for the backend, Ollama's API for generating AI-based recipe suggestions, and Docker for easy setup and deployment.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
  - [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
  - [Without Docker](#without-docker)
- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Unit Testing](#unit-testing)
- [Data Flow](#data-flow)

## Project Overview

This application helps companies generate recipes based on their product ingredients. The app allows users to select a company, input ingredients, and receive an AI-generated recipe using the provided ingredients, with additional suggestions.

## Features

- **Company Selection**: Choose from a list of companies to generate a recipe.
- **Ingredient Input**: Provide a list of ingredients and let the AI generate a recipe.
- **AI-Powered Suggestions**: Recipes are enhanced with extra ingredients that match the selected company.
- **Error Handling**: Graceful handling of invalid inputs and failed API calls.
- **Unit Testing**: Comprehensive tests to ensure code robustness.
  
## Installation and Setup

To run this project locally, follow these steps.

### Docker Setup

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/recipebrowser.git
    cd recipebrowser
    ```
2. Build and run the Docker container:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --build
    ```

3. Access the app in your browser:
    ```
    http://localhost:5000
    ```

### Without Docker

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/recipebrowser.git
    cd recipebrowser
    ```

2. Install the required Python packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Start the Flask server:
    ```bash
    python app.py
    ```

4. Access the app in your browser:
    ```
    http://localhost:5000
    ```

## Directory Structure

```bash
/project-root
  /src              # Main application code (Flask, Ollama API integration)
  /tests            # Unit tests for validating code
  /docs             # Documentation and diagrams
  /static           # Static files (CSS, images, etc.)
    /styles.css     # CSS file for styling the webpage
  /templates        # HTML templates (index.html)
  README.md         # Project README
  Dockerfile        # Docker setup file
  requirements.txt  # Python dependencies

Usage

    Select a company from the dropdown list.
    Enter the list of ingredients.
    Submit the form to generate a recipe.
    The AI will return a recipe name, tagline, and ingredients list based on your inputs.

Unit Testing

We have set up unit tests to validate the functionality of the application. The tests cover:

    Valid Input Handling: Ensuring correct JSON input generates expected results.
    Error Handling: Ensuring malformed or missing JSON, junk data, and failed API calls are handled gracefully.
    API Connection: Verifying behavior when the connection to the Ollama API fails.

Running Tests

To run the tests, execute the following command:

bash

python -m unittest discover -s tests

Data Flow

![Data Flow Diagram](RecipeBrowser/docs/dataflowdiagram.png)

The application’s data flow follows this process:

    User Input: The user selects a company and provides a list of ingredients.
    Data Submission: The form is submitted, sending a POST request to the /generate endpoint.
    AI Interaction: The Flask server forwards the user input to the Ollama API.
    AI Response: The Ollama API generates a recipe and returns it to the server.
    Display: The Flask app returns the AI-generated recipe to the user on the webpage.

Commit message:

attempted to show data flow diagram

README.md, after:

# AI-Backed Recipe Maker

An AI-powered web application that generates recipes based on ingredients provided by companies. This project leverages Flask for the backend, Ollama's API for generating AI-based recipe suggestions, and Docker for easy setup and deployment.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
  - [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
  - [Without Docker](#without-docker)
- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Unit Testing](#unit-testing)
- [Data Flow](#data-flow)

## Project Overview

This application helps companies generate recipes based on their product ingredients. The app allows users to select a company, input ingredients, and receive an AI-generated recipe using the provided ingredients, with additional suggestions.

## Features

- **Company Selection**: Choose from a list of companies to generate a recipe.
- **Ingredient Input**: Provide a list of ingredients and let the AI generate a recipe.
- **AI-Powered Suggestions**: Recipes are enhanced with extra ingredients that match the selected company.
- **Error Handling**: Graceful handling of invalid inputs and failed API calls.
- **Unit Testing**: Comprehensive tests to ensure code robustness.

## Installation and Setup

To run this project locally, follow these steps.

### Docker Setup

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/recipebrowser.git
    cd recipebrowser
    ```

2. Build and run the Docker container:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --build
    ```

3. Access the app in your browser:
    ```
    http://localhost:5000
    ```

### Without Docker

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/recipebrowser.git
    cd recipebrowser
    ```

2. Install the required Python packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Start the Flask server:
    ```bash
    python app.py
    ```

4. Access the app in your browser:
    ```
    http://localhost:5000
    ```

## Directory Structure

```bash
/project-root
  /src              # Main application code (Flask, Ollama API integration)
  /tests            # Unit tests for validating code
  /docs             # Documentation and diagrams
  /static           # Static files (CSS, images, etc.)
    /styles.css     # CSS file for styling the webpage
  /templates        # HTML templates (index.html)
  README.md         # Project README
  Dockerfile        # Docker setup file
  requirements.txt  # Python dependencies

Usage

    Select a company from the dropdown list.
    Enter the list of ingredients.
    Submit the form to generate a recipe.
    The AI will return a recipe name, tagline, and ingredients list based on your inputs.

Unit Testing

We have set up unit tests to validate the functionality of the application. The tests cover:

    Valid Input Handling: Ensuring correct JSON input generates expected results.
    Error Handling: Ensuring malformed or missing JSON, junk data, and failed API calls are handled gracefully.
    API Connection: Verifying behavior when the connection to the Ollama API fails.

Running Tests

To run the tests, execute the following command:

bash

python -m unittest discover -s tests

Data Flow

## Data Flow

The following diagram illustrates the data flow within the application. It highlights the steps taken from user input through to the AI-generated recipe response.

![Data Flow Diagram](RecipeBrowser/docs/dataflowdiagram.png)

The application’s data flow follows this process:

1. **User Input**: The user selects a company and provides a list of ingredients.
2. **Data Submission**: The form is submitted, sending a POST request to the `/generate` endpoint.
3. **AI Interaction**: The Flask server forwards the user input to the Ollama API.
4. **AI Response**: The Ollama API generates a recipe and returns it to the server.
5. **Display**: The Flask app returns the AI-generated recipe to the user on the webpage.
